---
categories: [Tech]
title: Wii U
---
I've had a Wii U for a few months now and I'd like to say a couple of things. I'd been eyeing one ever since they came and come November I bought one. I love it. Not that there aren't issues, or that it's a home run, but it does have many redeeming qualities. 

### The hardware
There's an elephant in the room I feel we need to address. I know that the Wii U isn't as graphically advanced as the Xbox One or the PS4.  I think it's unfair to call it on par with the Xbox 360 or the PS3, it quite obviously produces better graphics than both those two, but it is fair to say that out of the 8th generation consoles the graphics are the least advanced. 

Now, is this an issue? No. Really, the graphics look good. Not AS good as the PS4, but good. The Wii U was the first 8th generation console to arrive, and it's not unexpected that consoles arriving a year later will have better graphics.

I'd also like to talk about the gamepad. I'm not overly impressed with it. Some games do take advantage of the second screen, and that is pretty awesome. It's really nice to have your inventory or your map or whatever on the gamepad so you don't have to pause your game to check those.

Most games however don't actually use the second screen for anything but off-TV play. Now, I'm sure that for some off-TV play is great, but for me, I couldn't give two shits about it. If I want to play I'm gonna do it on my TV, not on some low-res gamepad screen. It's not even a retina display. It works great as an auxilliary display, but for gaming? Please.

As a controller, the gamepad is clunky and not too comfortable. On the other hand, the Wii U Pro Controller is amazingly comfortable. It's even better than the Xbox 360 controller. So unless you're playing a game like ZombiU where the seconds screen is being used, ditch the gamepad and get a Wii U Pro Controller. 

It's also cool that you're able to use your old Wii Controllers. Some games even require them, so dust off your old MotionPlus controllers and nunchuks.

### The games
This is where the console really shines. I know some people are probably going to disagree here, because the Wii U hasn't been getting a lot of third party love lately. 

I say screw third parties. The only AAA third party title I'm missing is GTA V, because most third party titles are just shitty FPS:es anyway.

The Wii U brings plenty of great titles, like Super Mario 3D World, Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze, Pikmin 3, The Wind Waker HD, NES Remix and Wii Sports Club. There are also amazing third party titles like Ducktales available through the Nintendo eShop.

All of the 8th generation games that I'm excited about right now are on the Wii U. The PS4 and the Xbox One can stick to their shitty FPSes, and I'll take the Wii U with awesome old-school platformers. I'm fine with that deal. 

Furthermore, there are no microtransactions or free-to-play games on Wii U. Microtransactions are ruining gaming, and the Wii U doesn't have them. Big plus for the Wii U.

In comparing the Wii U to the Xbox One or the PS4, I find that Nintendo is definitely going more old-school, and that's a very good thing. A lot of modern games have been ruined by being too easy or being free-to-play or senseless online multiplayer modes. The Wii U takes us back to a time where you'd spend hours grinding the brutal platforming jumps of a small part of a really difficult level. A time where Nintendo hard meant something. A time where you had two lives, one continue and that was it. A time where the learning paradigm wasn't tutorials, but learning by dying. A better time.

### The future
There are some really good games coming up on the Wii U. Mario Kart 8, the unnamed upcoming Zelda game and Super Smash Bros. There are some uncertainty as to how many awesome games Nintendo can produce by themselves. In that sense we may find that in a year or two the PS4 or the Xbox One will have a more impressive library of games, but right now, even considering the coming 6-12 months, I'd still prefer the Wii U lineup. There is a backlog of awesome games, and more awesome games coming up.